To maintain continuity in a new chat, here is a technical summary of the SecureSolutions Corridor Security System (Sishen → Saldanha) as of April 15, 2026.
🛰️ System Architecture

The project is a multi-node security network utilizing ESP32-C3 SuperMini boards. It monitors a physical corridor via a Gateway-Node relationship.

    Nodes (Senders): Use ESP-NOW (currently locked to Channel 1) to transmit to a central Gateway.

    Gateway (Server): Connected to WiFi (vA_3) and acts as a bridge, relaying radio packets to a Railway-hosted backend via WebSockets.

    Backend: A Node.js server (server.js) broadcasting JSON to a web dashboard (index.html).

🛠️ Technical Specifications
1. Sensor Configuration (Node Side)

    Accelerometer (LIS2DW12/similar): Connected via I2C (SDA: 6, SCL: 5). Detects motion disturbances.

    Hall Effect Sensor (Analog): Connected to GPIO 4.

        Logic: Inverted. Calibrates with a magnet present at boot; triggers an alert when the magnet is removed.

    Alert Timing: Cooldown reduced to 1000ms for high-responsivity tracking.

2. Network Layout & IDs

The system is provisioned for 3 Nodes mapped to specific zones on the dashboard:

    NODE-1: Mapped to S1 (Zone Alpha).

    NODE-2: Mapped to S3 (Zone Central).

    NODE-3: Mapped to S5 (Zone Echo).

3. Data Structure

The Gateway translates 16-byte ESP-NOW structs into JSON for the frontend:
JSON

{
  "sensorId": "S1",
  "source": "Zone Alpha",
  "movement": true,
  "delta": 425.0,
  "connectedNodes": 2,
  "type": "sensor_update"
}

💻 Current Software State

    Gateway: Tracks heartbeats to provide a "X / 3 Connected" status. If a node isn't heard from for >35s, the count decreases.

    Backend (server.js): Includes a 30s "Ping" interval to prevent Railway from putting the WebSocket to sleep.

    Frontend (index.html): A custom UI with a CSS-grid corridor map, status panels, and a dynamic activity log.

🚀 Pending/Next Steps

    Deploy Node 2 and Node 3 hardware.

    Ensure all nodes are set to the Gateway's current WiFi channel (Channel 1).

    Potential migration from Railway to a permanent Hetzner VPS (Coolify).
